one day a scorpion wanted to cross a
river so it approached a frog for help
i'd like to the frog said but if i let
you get on my back you'll sting me of
course i wouldn't the scorpion said that
would only kill us both and so the frog
let the scorpion onto its back they swam
out onto the river once they reached the
middle of the river the scorpion stand
the frog the frog called out why did you
do that now we'll both die it's in my
nature the scorpion said as they both
began to slip below the water bound for
muddy graves on the bottom of that dark
riverbed that neither cheered nor
commiserated nor delighted in the slings
and arrows of the amoral unit hold up
there forefront the frog said the frog
had been up all night at a frankfurt
rave and was still so full of disco
biscuits that his system could fight off
the poison for a few moments longer you
must be very wise if you're so aware of
your own impulses like that you bet the
scorpion said and you must be very
clever and worldly if you lied to me
like that my intellectuals are german my
lingerie is french the scorpion said
then how come you're not clever and wise
enough to realize you can resist your
own nature why would i want to the
scorpion asked because you haven't just
killed me you've killed yourself you
could have waited 20 seconds then stung
me when we got back to land ah the
scorpion said that this was guaranteed
to work you can't blame me for being a
profiteer it's the main character of
scorpions no it isn't the frog said you
just so lacking character that the only
thing you know how to do is ruin the
efforts of others and kill yourself in
the process the scorpion lit a cigarette
as they continue to sink and said eh and
you know the frog said the most
insulting part isn't that you've done
something stupid it's that you've done
something stupid and you're so afraid of
just apologizing that you've concocted
an entire infantile ad-hoc belief system
around your own shortcomings full of
enough cognitive dissonance to make the
trojan horse blush you think you're
clever trying to convince everyone that
profiteering off greed is the way of the
world but you're dumb because you don't
even realize you're dependent on the
rest of us for there to even be things
to profiteer off of ah the scorpion said
either you die a hero or live long
enough to become the no the frog said
the world isn't fundamentally unfair the
world isn't anything it's just full of
creatures that make it so you're the
problem convincing yourself everything
is futile just so you can give them to
your cynical zero-sum game impulses
which you could choose to assess and
discard at any time and then things
wouldn't be unfair idiocy is passive it
takes a special kind of idiot to inflict
their idiocy on someone else the
scorpion considered this then said [ __ ]
you [ __ ] you said the frog [ __ ] you said
the scorpion no [ __ ] you said the frog
no [ __ ] you said the scorpion
[Music]
[ __ ] you no [ __ ] you said the frog we're
all selfish sometimes but most of us are
ashamed of it we don't make selfishness
of virtue in some cheap attempt to trick
the only idiots who believe that kind of
nonsense just so we can take a few more
spoils from the world for ourselves i
didn't even want to be in a fable i
applied for a greek paradox but they
only take cute animals now i have to get
remembered for this [ __ ] what's even the
moral put up with vicious idiots who
want to ruin the world they can't help
it how is that my fault just apologize
and i'll forgive you even now even at
the end oh i never apologize the
scorpion said why because it's not in my
nature the frog slipped beneath the
water it gave a few desperate gasps then
died the scorpion slipped beneath the
water and did not die because scorpions
can survive for up to 48 hours
underwater it was so stupid it didn't
realize it could have gotten over the
river by itself it watched the frog's
motionless body a while on the riverbed
and meditated on death and futility and
wondered if it should feel responsible
for all this it thought to itself and
how can frogs die better than facing
fearful odds for the ashes of their
fathers and the temples of their gods
which wasn't the scorpion's line but it
would tell everyone that it was on
balance it decided not a bad day a
number of frogs had been watching the
scene and were waiting for the scorpion
when it waddled back out of the water
why did you do that they asked it's in
my nature the scorpion said wait one
frog said we're altruists this is a new
concept to us what do you mean ah the
scorpion said you can't blame a creature
for reckless egotism if it's just what
they do the frogs pondered this whose
fault is it then uh the scorpion said
everyone else is for being compassionate
of course they're the real problem in
the animal kingdom why this changes
everything the frog said we'll switch to
the new paradigm immediately as a thank
you for this revelation would you like
to join us for dinner so we can discuss
guiltless self-interest further in fact
bring all your friends incapable of
practicing kindness but more than happy
to take it from others the scorpion and
its many associates accepted the
invitation that evening the frogs
prepared a delicious meal of olives and
bread and wine and cheese and every
scorpion in the forest roasted over a
massive fire